## Directory Structure for src code
```
src
├── archive_codes
│   ├── helper_functions
│   │   ├── __pycache__
│   │   │   ├── delimiters.cpython-39.pyc
│   │   │   ├── querying_functions.cpython-39.pyc
│   │   │   └── sql_connect_functions.cpython-39.pyc
│   │   ├── delimiters.py
│   │   ├── querying_functions.py
│   │   └── sql_connect_functions.py
│   ├── map_demographic_to_subzone.ipynb
│   ├── mapping_ohca_to_hectares.ipynb
│   └── using_openstreetmaps.ipynb
├── describing_datasets
│   ├── describing_paros.ipynb
│   └── plotting_OHCA_cases.ipynb
├── describing_datasets_part2
│   ├── describe_collated_geographic_data.ipynb
│   └── describe_interpolated_demographic_data.ipynb
├── geospatial_step_1
│   ├── postal_to_coordinates.py
│   └── remove_incorrect_geocode.py
├── geospatial_step_2
│   ├── map_characteristic_to_subzone.ipynb
│   └── map_interpolated_data_to_subzone.ipynb
└── scripts
    ├── __pycache__
    │   └── bash_commands.cpython-39.pyc
    ├── database.ini
    ├── interpolation_step
    │   ├── describing_demographic_data.ipynb
    │   ├── interpolation_education_numbers.ipynb
    │   ├── interpolation_ethnicity_numbers.ipynb
    │   ├── interpolation_resident_numbers.ipynb
    │   ├── planning_area_plots
    │   ├── population_area_changes
    │   └── sanity_check
    ├── logistic_regression_step
    │   ├── logistic_regression.ipynb
    │   └── map_ohca_counts_to_subzone.ipynb
    └── onemap_singstat_data
        ├── changes_in_education_lvl.ipynb
        ├── changes_in_ethnicity.ipynb
        ├── changes_in_population.ipynb
        ├── data_gov_description.ipynb
        ├── extracting_landuse_type.ipynb
        └── visualising_missing_data.ipynb
```

### Setting up environments for the codes to run
For .py files, you can install the required packages by running `pip install -r requirements.txt`, ensure that you run this command in the same directory as requirement.txt file

You can create a new virtual environment to keep your local environment clean, run this in the root directory: `python3 -m venv <name_of_virtual_env>` 

For .ipynb files, it is best to create a new conda environment:
```
conda create -n geospatial_env
conda activate geospatial_env
conda install pandas geopandas geopy openpyxl msoffcrypto gdal
```
The `gdal` package was used to input/output GeoPackage (.gpkg) files into PostgreSQL database. Functions from this package can be a bit buggy. Running the same function multiple times can result in errors, **hence it is best to restart the notebook kernel and rerun the whole notebook.** 

#### PostgreSQL
Postgres was used to manipulate geospatial data.

It can be downloaded here: https://www.postgresql.org/download/

Where applicable, I have included the sql quries used in the python notebooks. They can either be ran on the command line or in the PostgreSQL application. 

#### QGIS application
QGIS was used to view geopackage (.gpkg) files 

It can be downloaded here: https://qgis.org/download/

#### archive_codes folder
Contains code I had previously written but not used for the project. It includes my attempt to split Singapore into hectare grids.

If you would like to run the codes in the Archive_codes folder, ensure the qgis package is installed:
```conda install qgis --channel conda-forge```.
This will allow you to run the codes that use QGIS for geospatial analysis.

As the paros dataset contains sensitive information, it is not included in this repository. Please place the Apr10-Dec21 Paros dataset into the ./dataset folder

To read the paros dataset with the ipynb files (eg. describing_paros.ipynb), create a .env file with this line: 
PAROS_PASSWORD = "replace_with_actual_password"

Place the .env in the root directory (i.e. Mobile-AED-Study)

The following folders are listed based on the work flow from processing the Paros data to preparing it and training the logistic regression model. 

### describing_datasets folder
- src/describing_datasets/describing_paros.ipynb describes the paros dataset 
- src/describing_datasets/plotting_OHCA_cases.ipynb plots out the individual OHCA cases. It also cleans the dataset, extracting the OHCA cases with known postal codes or addresses that could be translated into coordinates.

### geospatial_step_1 folder
Contains python script used to convert the Postal codes and addresses found in Paros dataset into coordinates. The postal codes are stored in excel files generated by the plotting_OHCA_cases.ipynb notebook.

The python script, postal_to_coordinates.py in src/script/. requires an API key. Add this line to the .env file:

API_KEY = "Your_google_cloud_API_KEY"

### script/onemap_singstat_data folder
- The changes_in_*.ipynb files are used to analyse the changes in subzone names over time for each demographic type (ethnicity, resident numbers etc)
- data_gov_description.ipynb describes the data obtained from data.gov
- extracting_landuse_type.ipynb extracts the area of each landuse classified by URA: https://propertyreviewsg.com/ura-masterplan-zoning-interpretation/
- visualising_missing_data.ipynb outputs geopackage (.gpkg) files help visualise if the datasets obtained from data.gov is missing any data. The .gpkg files can be dropped into QGIS to be viewed.

### script/interpolation_step folder
Contains the interpolation of Singapore's resident numbers, age group numbers and ethnicity numbers. There was insufficient data to perform interpolation for resident numbers by *highest qualification*. 

### geospatial_step_2 folder
- map_characteristic_to_subzone.ipynb maps geospatial binary encodings to their respective subzone.
    - outputs 3 CSV files containing geospatial encodings base on the 3 URA masterplans (2008, 2014, 2019).
- map_interpolated_data_to_subzone.ipynb maps the interpolated demographic data and geospatial encoding to subzones.
    - The interpolated demographic data were from script/interpolation_step folder
    - Geospatial encodings from 2014 are mapped to subzones for years 2010 - 2018 
    - Geospatial encodings from 2019 are mapped to subzones for years 2019 - 2021
    - adds the 'is_resident' column to the table, where is_resident = 1 if the subzone's primary land use classification is residential
    - outputs 2 CSV files with containing the predictor variables for logistic regression

### describing_datasets_part2
- `describe_collated_geographic_data.ipynb:` describes the distribution of OHCA counts per month, the proportion of subzones with OHCA incidents per month and changes to the geospatial predictor variables
- `describe_interpolated_demographic_data.ipynb`: Provides descriptive statistics (min/max, mean, and IQR) for demographic predictors, which are residents aged 60+ and ethnicity/gender pairings. All demographic metrics are normalized per 1,000 residents. 

### script/logistic_regression_step
Contains the code for logistic regression model to train and predict OHCA demand in Singapore. 


### datasets folder
Contains the datasets needed for the scripts and notebook to run. The dataset folder has been shared with Dr Sean. The text file `dataset_txt_directory.txt` contains the directory structure of the datasets folder. 

Place the `datasets` folder at the root directory so that the code in ./src folder would be able to access the required files.